Results in Engineering 22 (2024) 102336
Available online 31 May 2024
2590-1230/© 2024 The Author. Published by Elsevier B.V. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-
nc-nd/4.0/).
Design and development of a wrist rehabilitation device with an 
interactive game 
Cong Vo Duy a,b,* 
a Industrial Maintenance Training Center, Ho Chi Minh City University of Technology (HCMUT), 268 Ly Thong Kiet Street, District 10, Ho Chi Minh City, 700000, Viet 
Nam 
b Vietnam National University Ho Chi Minh City (VNU-HCM), Linh Trung Ward, Thu Duc City, Ho Chi Minh City, 700000, Viet Nam   
A R T I C L E  I N F O   
Keywords: 
Rehabilitation 
Wrist robot 
Interactive game 
Physiotherapy 
A B S T R A C T   
In this paper, a wrist rehabilitation device integrated with an interactive game is developed. The device is 
designed for flexion/extension and ulnar/radial motions. The motion of the wrist joint is measured by an optical 
encoder. A hall sensor is also used to measure the force emitted from the DC motor. These data are fed back to the 
interactive gaming environment to create the movement of goals in the video game. There are two types of 
interactive games designed. The first requires the practitioner to move their wrist to achieve a specific goal. The 
second exercise requires the practitioner to move their wrist joint continuously to reach moving targets. In the 
game interface, therapists can easily adjust training intensity, training time, and change training limits 
depending on the recovery status of the patients. At the same time, it also records the patient’s training efforts 
and monitors visual graphs of performance during exercise. The experiments were conducted to tune the games 
and to get a preliminary evaluation of the device. The feedback from the patients and therapists are recorded to 
improve the device and game interfaces. Game parameters are adjusted during the patient’s exercise process 
under the supervision of a physiotherapist. The values of rotation angle and torque are collected and then 
presented in graphs so that physiotherapists can assess the patient’s recovery status. The results show that the 
patients enjoy the games. The therapist is satisfied with the game interface and says that the games are intuitive 
and easy to play.   
1. Introduction 
Every year, around the world, more than 15 million people are at risk 
of having a stroke. The effects of a stroke can be short-term or long-term, 
depending on which part of the brain is affected and how quickly it is 
treated. Stroke survivors can experience widespread disabilities 
including difficulties with mobility and speech, as well as how they 
think and feel. Stroke is one of the main factors leading to impaired 
motor function of the human upper limb. These patients are significantly 
limited in their daily social and family activities. Stroke patients require 
appropriate post-injury care and rehabilitation therapy to restore lost 
abilities and help them return to normal daily activities [1–3]. Typically, 
this is achieved through a long-term regimen of intensive and repetitive 
rehabilitation therapy. The rehabilitation therapy requires supervision, 
monitoring and support from physiotherapists. Another problem is that 
conventional recovery methods lack quantitative feedback on 
performance. Therefore, it is difficult to evaluate upper limb mobility 
without corresponding supporting data. This factor stimulates the 
application of alternative rehabilitation methods [4–7]. 
The idea of using robots in rehabilitation therapy has helped solve 
the above problems. Therefore, many rehabilitation robot systems have 
been developed [8–12]. The robots are designed to create precise, re­
petitive movements and can be adjusted to suit the patient’s motor 
abilities. Rehabilitation robots help reduce physical therapists’ efforts, 
and they can even provide longer and more intense therapy sessions. 
Based on integrated sensors, the patient’s recovery status is also more 
accurately assessed. Thanks to that, the robot provides exercises with 
intensity appropriate to the recovery condition [13,14]. Rehabilitation 
robots can be also equipped with a virtual environment to provide an 
entertaining and motivating background for patients, which can lead to 
an increment of exercise intensity. For each different damaged limb, 
there will be robots designed to suit the activities of each limb. Some 
* Industrial Maintenance Training Center, Ho Chi Minh City University of Technology (HCMUT), 268 Ly Thong Kiet Street, District 10, Ho Chi Minh City, 700000, 
Viet Nam. 
E-mail address: congvd@hcmut.edu.vn.  
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect 
Results in Engineering 
journal homepage: www.sciencedirect.com/journal/results-in-engineering 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rineng.2024.102336 
Received 1 March 2024; Received in revised form 26 May 2024; Accepted 29 May 2024   
Results in Engineering 22 (2024) 102336
2
rehabilitation robots have been developed for various limbs such as the 
shoulder, arm, wrist, hand, finger, knee, and ankle. The hand plays an 
important role in performing activities in daily life. The wrist joint 
connects the hand to the forearm, helps position complex hand poses, 
and creates complex and flexible movements in daily activities. There­
fore, when the wrist joint is damaged, tasks that require flexibility and 
dexterity are difficult to perform [15–17]. Wrist joint rehabilitation 
helps patients restore the movements of their wrist joints for daily ac­
tivities and work. It is as important as hand rehabilitation. 
The development of wrist rehabilitation robots is a combination of 
mechanical design, actuators, sensors, control algorithms, software, and 
exercise design. CR2-Haptic [18] is a portable and compact device for 
wrist joint rehabilitation. This design used a DC brushed motor to create 
the rotation motion for the handle. The rotation angle and motor current 
were measured by a rotary encoder and current sensor, respectively. 
Various rehabilitation strategies have been designed in a virtual reality 
environment to enhance the patient recovery process. In Ref. [19], a 
Universal Haptic Drive device was designed to create a 2-DOF move­
ment for either arm or wrist joint. The force of two sets of DC motors is 
controlled by an impedance control algorithm in the training movement. 
Lee et al. [20] developed a robot wrist that was actuated coaxial 
spherical parallel mechanism. This design has advantages such as low 
moving parts inertia, high torque output, and high dynamic motion 
response. Parallel mechanisms for wrist and forearm rehabilitation are 
also proposed in RiceWrist [21] and CRAMER [22] robots. Martinez 
et al. [23] developed a Wrist Gimbal device with 3-DOF for the forearm 
and wrist rehabilitation. The device used the Maxon DC servo motors to 
create motion in position trajectory tracking tasks of passive exercises 
and generate resistive torques in active exercises. The control system 
used a Quanser Q8-USB data acquisition board together with Matlab/­
Simulink and Quanser QuaRC software to read data from sensors. 
Another design with 3-DOF motion was also proposed in Ref. [24] called 
Physiotherabot/WF. This robot used the Hybrid Impedance Control 
(HIC) method in the control system, and it can perform passive, active 
assisted, isotonic, isometric and isokinetic exercises. NU-Wrist robot is a 
novel self-aligning 3-DOF robotic system for wrist and forearm reha­
bilitation that was proposed in Ref. [25]. The robot was designed with a 
novel compliant robot handle that can self-align the axes wrist joints and 
rotation axes of the robot during therapy exercises. Dynamixel MX-106 
and MX-28 servomotors were used as joint actuators in this prototype to 
simplify electronic circuits and control algorithms. Lue et al. [26] 
developed a compact wrist rehabilitation robot that uses a curvilinear 
guide. A “moving window” control strategy based on impedance control 
is proposed and implemented on the robot. 
In recent years, interactive games have been rapidly applied as new 
treatment approaches in stroke rehabilitation. More and more game 
consoles are being applied in clinical treatment. Interactive games are 
designed to help patients reacquaint themselves with real-life move­
ments and situations in everyday life. Key requirements for motor 
learning include intensity, frequency, repetition, and task-oriented 
training can be provided by the software, the interaction between the 
patient and the game environment makes the patient feel involved in 
their rehabilitation. Thanks to the adjustment of the degree of difficulty, 
as well as options in gaming tasks, the virtual systems can accommodate 
patient needs, abilities, and goals. Video games makes recovery sessions 
more interesting and engaging for goal-oriented tasks. As the stroke 
patient’s functional ability progresses, tasks can be easily upgraded 
using manipulations in a safe environment for the patient [27,28]. 
Furthermore, the games can be performed without the supervision or 
intervention of physical therapists. Patients do not need to travel to 
physical therapy centers to perform exercise sessions. Instead, the 
therapy process can be performed regularly at home [29]. A recent 
randomized controlled trial suggests that using commercial video game 
therapy improves balance, postural control, functionality, quality of life, 
and motivation in patients with subacute stroke [30,31]. 
In this paper, a wrist rehabilitation device integrated with an 
interactive game is developed. The device is designed for flexion/ 
extension and ulnar/radial motions. The motion of the wrist joint is 
measured by an optical encoder. This information is fed back to the 
interactive gaming environment to create the movement of goals in the 
video game. Thus, creating interaction between the patient’s movement 
and the virtual environment. Additionally, a hall sensor is also used to 
measure the force emitted from the motor. Depending on the patient’s 
condition, the force value will be controlled at an appropriate level. The 
game interface will be designed so that users can easily adjust training 
intensity, training time, change training limits depending on recovery 
status. It also provides visual graphs of performance during exercise, 
from which physical therapists can accurately assess the patient’s con­
dition and recovery level. 
2. Prototype design and fabrication 
Fig. 1 shows the design of the prototype for the wrist rehabilitation 
device. The design is quite simple. It consists of a DC motor to drive a 
crank. The crank is connected directly to the shaft of the DC motor 
through a flange coupling. To measure the rotation angle of the motor, 
an encoder is used. The motion of the motor is transmitted through the 
encoder through the cable-driven. A rotation and slider joint between 
the crank and the handle help change the direction of the wrist motion. 
In Fig. 2, the handle is vertical, providing flexion/extension motion. In 
Fig. 3, the handle is horizontal, providing ulnar/radial motion. After 
adjusting the appropriate position for the handle, it is fixed to the crank 
by tightening the 2 bolts on the crank to secure the handle. The human 
forearm will be placed on a pedestal and held in place by an adjustable 
fabric strap. 
Fig. 4 shows the realistic prototype. The components for mounting 
the motor and the crank are made from aluminium alloy to ensure ri­
gidity. The handle is made using 3D printing technology with a steel 
shaft at the end. The pedestal is also made with a 3D printer. 
The motor used is the XD340 motor, it can provide a maximum 
torque of 4Nm. It operates at a voltage of 12 V, and the maximum 
current is 3 A. The encoder used to measure the rotation angle of the 
motor is E6B2-CWZ6C 4000P/R 0.5 M. The resolution of the encoder is 
400 pulse/revolution. 
In this project, to control the motor, the Arduino Uno board is used. 
The function of the Arduino board is that read signals from sensors to 
control the movement of the motor. In this project, a current sensor is 
used to determine the torque of the motor. Therefore, we can adjust the 
output torque of the motor. Fig. 5 shows the wiring circuit of the elec­
tronic system. 
The current sensor used is the Hall sensor ACS712 5 A. The current 
sensor is connected in series with the motor driver. The output of the 
current sensor is an analog signal. So, the output pin of ACS712 is 
connected to the analog pin A0 of Arduino. The output value from the 
Fig. 1. The prototype for the wrist rehabilitation device.  
C. Vo Duy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
Results in Engineering 22 (2024) 102336
3
sensor is the voltage that is linear to the current to be measured with a 
sensitivity of 63–190 mV/A. To control the motor, the BTS7960 driver is 
used. 
To create impedance, the motor will be torque controlled (control 
the current) using a PID controller: 
PWM = Kpe(t) + Kd
de(t)
dt
+ Ki
∫
e(t)
(1)  
where e(t) is the error between the measured torque τm(t) and the 
desired torque τd(t): 
e(t) = τm(t) −τd(t)
(2)  
Since the torque of a DC motor is proportional to the current (τ = ki), it 
is possible to determine the value of the motor’s torque by a current 
sensor. The torque of the motor is not controlled at a fixed value but 
changes according to the position of the motor. The desired torque τd(t)
will depend on the rotation angle and angular velocity of the motor: 
τd(t) = kα(t) + bω(t)
(3)  
where k is the stiffness coefficient, b is the damping coefficient, α is the 
rotation angle of the motor measured from the encoder, ω(t) is the 
angular velocity of the motor. The angular velocity of the motor is not 
directly measured but will be determined from the rotation angle of the 
motor: 
ω(t) = x(t + Δt) −x(t)
Δt
(4) 
It can be seen that when the motor rotates at a larger angle, the larger 
torque generated will pull the motor back to its original position. The 
analog signal from the current sensor must be filtered for noise before 
being used in the controller. The averaging filter and the compensation 
filter are used in combination to reduce noise from the sensor. The 
Arduino will first read 50 consecutive analog values from the sensor and 
take the average: 
ADC =
∑
50
i=0
ADC(i)
50
(5) 
Then, the compensation filter is applied: 
ADC = α.ADC + (1 −α)Last ADC
(6) 
The obtained ADC value will be converted to the current value. The 
analog-to-digital converter (ADC module) in the Arduino has a resolu­
tion of 10 bit, so the ADC value will be from 0 to 1023. The ACS712 
sensor will output a voltage from 0 V to 2.5VDC, corresponding to a 
current from 0 A to 5 A, we can determine the formula to convert from 
ADC value to current as follows: 
I = 5 (512 −
ADC)
512
(7) 
Fig. 6 shows the step-by-step implementation of the motor control 
algorithm. First, the Arduino will read the motor rotation angle from the 
encoder, this angle value will be used to calculate the desired torque 
value τd(t) according to equations (4) and (3). The Arduino then reads 
the motor current value from the current sensor. The current value is 
converted to the motor torque to calculate the error according to 
equation (2). The PID controller according to equation (1) will be 
applied to calculate the PWM value to be output to control the motor. 
Finally, the Arduino will output the PWM signal to the driver to control 
the motor. 
The values of the rotation angle and torque of the motor will be sent 
to the computer for display on the exercise interface to aid in the 
rehabilitation process. Data communicates between the computer and 
the Arduino via asynchronous serial communication (UART) with a set 
baud rate of 38400 bits/sec. 
3. Development of game interfaces for rehabilitation 
The game interface is designed using Python programming language 
with the support of the Tkinter library. Tkinter is a Python library that 
Fig. 2. Change the direction of the handle to vertical for flexion/exten­
sion motion. 
Fig. 3. Change the direction of the handle to vertical for redial/ulnar motion.  
Fig. 4. The realistic prototype.  
C. Vo Duy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
Results in Engineering 22 (2024) 102336
4
Fig. 5. Wiring circuit to connect electronic devices to each other.  
Fig. 6. The flowchart of the control algorithm.  
C. Vo Duy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
Results in Engineering 22 (2024) 102336
5
can be used to construct a basic graphical user interface (GUI) applica­
tions. To communicate between Arduino and the Python program, the 
pySerial module is used to access and work with serial ports. 
Fig. 7 shows the main interface screen of the game designed using 
Python programming. This screen allows the user to select exercises and 
select different levels of exercise. There are 6 different levels of practice. 
In which level 0 will not be the resistance from the motor. At other 
levels, the resistance created by the motor will change as the level in­
creases. The resistance is changed by varying the coefficients k and b in 
Equation (3). When the user chooses to change the level, the computer 
will send down the characters corresponding to the selected level. The 
Arduino receives the character and will change the k and b coefficients 
according to the received character. 
Exercises are divided into two categories. The first requires the 
practitioner to move the wrist to achieve a specific goal. When the 
practitioner rotates the wrist joint, the cat on the screen will move 
accordingly. The trainer’s task is to make the cat achieve the goals in 
turn, when the final goal is reached, it will return to the original posi­
tion. Fig. 8 illustrates this exercise. The cat is moved to eat three small 
fishes and a big fish. Practitioners can choose the limit of the rotation 
angle to suit their condition. This interface screen has three buttons. The 
“start” button is used to initiate an exercise when the practitioner is 
ready. When the practitioner wants to increase the resistance of the 
motor, he can press the “next level” button. The “back” button is used to 
return to the main screen. This exercise is suitable for patients in the 
early stages of recovery. The patient will try to move the wrist to achieve 
the greatest possible rotation (without resistance from the motor). After 
the patient has flexed and extended the wrist to the maximum angle, it is 
possible to switch to exercise with increasing motor resistance to 
improve wrist strength. 
The second exercise requires the practitioner to move the wrist joint 
continuously to reach moving targets. Objects will change position 
continuously on the screen. Fig. 9 shows the screen interface of this 
exercise. The player’s task is to move the basket to catch red apples 
falling in different random positions on the screen. After each time a red 
apple is caught, the score will increase by one unit. The maximum score 
will be set in advance. Players complete the mission when they reach the 
set score. In addition to red apples, there will also be green apples 
appearing on the screen. If the player catches a green apple, two points 
will be deducted. After a specified time, if the player does not achieve 
the required score, it will be considered as not completing the mission. 
4. Experiment results 
The experiments were performed to tune the game and to get a 
preliminary evaluation of the device. The experimental process is per­
formed on patients under the supervision of a physiotherapist. Three 
patients, two women and one man, participated in the rehabilitation 
process with the device in three days. Initial feedback from the patients 
and therapist helped improve the device and the game interface. For 
example, in the first test, the device could not be used on female patients 
recovering from a stroke. The reason is that the first design of the device 
used a motor with a gearbox. The patient has just been injured and her 
wrist strength is still very weak so she cannot rotate the motor (due to 
the resistance and friction of the gears in the gearbox). Therefore, we 
replaced it with another motor without a gearbox. The original game 
was also designed with a simple, unattractive interface that did not 
create excitement for patients. After consulting with the physiotherapist, 
we redesigned the game, making it more lively and attractive. The 
physiotherapist also requested that the game should be divided into 
different levels to suit the recovery status of the patients. 
The games are designed to ensure operability. However, to evaluate 
the device’s suitability for the rehabilitation of patients, experiments 
need to be performed to adjust the parameters in the game. With the 
designed games, the parameters that need to be adjusted are the limit of 
the wrist’s angle, the maximum resistance torque of the device, the goal 
of each level, and the range of change in the position of targets. 
First, the limited parameters of a few healthy adults were recorded. 
The maximum flexion/extension rotation angle is 80◦, redial/ulnar 
rotation angle is 20◦. The maximum torque for flexion/extension 
movement is 4 N.m. These parameters are used for the highest level of 
the game (level 5). The game is divided into 6 levels. The levels are not 
evenly spaced but must be divided into levels appropriate to the pa­
tient’s condition. According to advice from a physiotherapist, for pa­
tients who have recently suffered an injury, the recovery process will be 
slow. Therefore, we set the limit of the levels 0, 1 and 2 to be close to 
each other. The testing process on three patients helped determine the 
limits of each level. Table 1 shows the value of each level. 
In the early stage, the patients can rotate the wrist to reach an angle 
Fig. 7. The main screen of the game was designed using Python program­
ming language. 
Fig. 8. The interface screen of the reach target exercise consists of three small 
targets and a big final target. 
Fig. 9. The interface screen of the earn score exercise.  
C. Vo Duy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
Results in Engineering 22 (2024) 102336
6
up to 50◦, however, the wrist strength is still weak. The exercise process 
will help patients gradually increase wrist strength as well as the ability 
to control movement. The goal of rotation angle will not be fixed, 
depending on the patient’s ability, the physiotherapist will enter the 
maximum rotation angle value into the game. 
After adjusting the game parameters, experiments are performed to 
obtain preliminary assessments showing the device’s suitability during 
the patient’s recovery. Experiments on both normal people and patients 
have been performed. The results are shown in Figs. 10–12. The graphs 
show the rotation angle of the wrist joint and the motor torque over time 
during an exercise to achieve the required goal. 
Fig. 10 shows the results of a normal person. For undamaged wrist 
joints, the movements are flexible, and the wrist torque is strength, so 
the target angle can be quickly achieved. The practitioner only needs 
about 1.5s to rotate the wrist to reach the required angle. The graph in 
Fig. 10 will be used as a reference to evaluate the practitioner during the 
rehabilitation period. 
Fig. 11 is the result of a patient for the first time using the device. 
Based on the graph, it can be seen that it is quite difficult for the patient 
to move the wrist joint to the required angle value. The patient needs to 
stop at intermediate goals before reaching the final goal, so the graph 
has a ladder shape. The time to complete the request is therefore also 
extended up to 6s. The patient also cannot maintain the maximum 
rotation for a long enough time. Due to the pulling force from the motor, 
the patient’s wrist angle decreased from 35◦to 30◦in the maintenance 
time. Comparing the graph between a normal person and a recovering 
person, we can evaluate the patient’s condition. In the early stages, the 
patients will not be able to control the movement of the wrist joint, so 
the movements will be interrupted. The patients will move in small steps 
to reach the target angle. After a period of practice, the patient will 
gradually control the movement and strength of the wrist. Movements 
become smoother and graphs also become smoother. Fig. 12 shows re­
sults after a period of practice with the device of the above patient. The 
graph shows that the patient has gradually become familiar with the 
device. Even though it was only for a short time, it also showed 
improvement in wrist joint mobility. The time to reach the required 
rotation angle has been reduced to 4s for two days of exercise. Although 
there are still interruption motions, the stopping time at intermediate 
points is also reduced. If compared with the graph of the hand joint of a 
person who has not suffered damage, this patient’s condition has not yet 
reached a normal state. At this stage, the patient can switch to contin­
uous exercise mode to continue improving the flexibility and movement 
speed of the wrist joint. 
Continuous exercises will help patients improve wrist flexibility. 
Patients should start with a low score and gradually increase the score 
during practice to gradually adapt. The movement speed of the targets in 
this game is also adjusted to match the movement speed of the patient’s 
wrist joint. The speed will gradually increase with each level. 
Experiments have shown that patients enjoy participating in reha­
bilitation exercises with the device. This makes rehabilitation exercises 
entertaining and engaging and keeps the patients motivated longer. The 
therapists were satisfied with our game interface and she said that the 
games were intuitive and easy to play so patients did not need much 
training. 
5. Conclusion 
This paper has developed a wrist robot for rehabilitation therapy. 
The device is designed to easily switch between flexion/extension mo­
tion and ulnar/radial motion, and the handle position is also adjustable 
to fit a variety of patients. The device is used by patients for active ex­
ercises. The motor will create resistance force against the patient’s 
movement during therapy. The resistance force increases according to 
the wrist joint angle. The current sensor and encoder are used in the 
electronics circuit to measure the motor current and rotation angle, 
respectively. The desired torque is calculated from the position of the 
wrist. The PID controller is applied to the motor can create the torque 
equal to the desired value. 
A game interface has been designed to create an interactive envi­
ronment and make the patient feel involved in their rehabilitation. The 
gaming interface has 6 levels to choose from, the resistance created by 
the motor increases with each level. So, the patient can easily adjust 
training intensity, training time, change training limits depending on 
recovery status. The software also records the patient’s training efforts 
and monitors visual graphs of performance during exercise, from which 
physical therapists can accurately assess the patient’s condition and 
recovery level. Experimental results were performed to tune the game 
and get a preliminary evaluation of the device. Initial feedback from the 
patients and therapist helped improve the device and the game inter­
face. To make the device can be used in rehabilitation process, some 
parameters of the games were adjusted such as the parameters that need 
to be adjusted are the limit of the wrist’s angle, the maximum resistance 
torque of the device, the goal of each level, and the range of change in 
the position of targets. 
Table 1 
The limit of rotation angle and resistance torque.   
Wrist angle 
Resistance Torque 
Level 0 
0–50◦
0 Nm 
Level 1 
0–50◦
0.5 Nm 
Level 2 
0–50◦
1 Nm 
Level 3 
0–70◦
2 Nm 
Level 4 
0–70◦
3 Nm 
Level 5 
0–80◦
4 Nm  
Fig. 10. Result of a normal person using the device to conduct extension motion to reach the target at the position of 40◦. The left picture is the rotation angle and the 
right is the resistance torque of the motor. 
C. Vo Duy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
Results in Engineering 22 (2024) 102336
7
After adjusting the game parameters, experiments are performed to 
obtain preliminary assessments showing the device’s suitability during 
the patient’s recovery. Experiments on both normal people and patients 
have been performed. The normal person only needs about 1.5s to rotate 
the wrist to reach the required angle and the graph of motion during 
exercise is very smooth. Patients who exercise for the first time find it 
more difficult to achieve the goal; it takes them more than 6s to complete 
the task. They cannot move the wrist joint continuously and need to 
pause midway to gain momentum. After a period of practice, the patient 
will gradually control the movement and strength of the wrist. The re­
sults show that the time to reach the required rotation angle has been 
reduced to 4s for two days of exercise. 
CRediT authorship contribution statement 
Cong Vo Duy: Writing – review & editing, Writing – original draft, 
Visualization, Validation, Software, Methodology, Investigation, Formal 
analysis, Conceptualization. 
Declaration of competing interest 
The authors declare that they have no known competing financial 
interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence 
the work reported in this paper. 
Data availability 
Data will be made available on request. 
Acknowledgment 
We acknowledge Ho Chi Minh City University of Technology 
(HCMUT), VNU-HCM for supporting this study. 
References 
[1] M. Babaiasl, S.H. Mahdioun, P. Jaryani, M. Yazdani, A review of technological and 
clinical aspects of robot-aided rehabilitation of upper-extremity after stroke, 
Disabil. Rehabil. Assist. Technol. 11 (4) (2016) 263–280. 
[2] M. Katan, A. Luft, Global burden of stroke, Semin. Neurol. 38 (2) (2018) 208–211. 
[3] Meng Q, Liu G, Xu X, Meng Q, Yu H.: Design and Analysis of a Supine Ankle 
Rehabilitation Robot for Early Stroke Recovery. Machines. Vol. 11, No. 8. 
https://doi.org/10.3390/machines11080787. 
[4] C. Greco, T.H. Weerakkody, V. Cichella, L. Pagnotta, C. Lamuta, Lightweight 
bioinspired exoskeleton for wrist rehabilitation powered by twisted and coiled 
artificial muscles, Robotics 12 (1) (2023), https://doi.org/10.3390/ 
robotics12010027. 
[5] Y. Bouteraa, I. Ben Abdallah, K. Alnowaiser, M.R. Islam, A. Ibrahim, F. Gebali, 
Design and development of a smart IoT-based robotic solution for wrist 
rehabilitation, Micromachines 13 (6) (2022). 
[6] U. Mayetin, S. Kucuk, Design and experimental evaluation of a low cost, portable, 
3-DOF wrist rehabilitation robot with high physical human–robot interaction, 
J. Intell. Rob. Syst. 106 (65) (2022). 
[7] R.S. Gonçalves, L.S.F. Brito, L.P. Moraes, G. Carbone, M. Ceccarelli, A fairly simple 
mechatronic device for training human wrist motion, Int. J. Adv. Rob. Syst. 17 
(2020) 1–15. 
[8] Y. Wang, Q. Xu, Design and testing of a soft parallel robot based on pneumatic 
artificial muscles for wrist rehabilitation, Sci. Rep. 11 (2021) 1273. 
[9] J.F. Gallagher, M. Sivan, M. Levesley, Making best use of home-based 
rehabilitation robots, Appl. Sci. 12 (2022). 
[10] H. Yu, S. Zheng, J. Wu, L. Sun, Y. Chen, S. Zhang, Z. Qin, A new single-leg lower- 
limb rehabilitation robot: design, Analysis and Experimental Evaluation. Machines 
11 (2023). 
[11] A.S. Arockia Doss, P.K. Lingampally, G.M.T. Nguyen, D. Schilberg, 
A comprehensive review of wearable assistive robotic devices used for head and 
Fig. 11. Result of a patient in the first time using the device to conduct the extension motion to reach the target at the position of 35◦.  
Fig. 12. Result of a patient after using the device for a while.  
C. Vo Duy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
Results in Engineering 22 (2024) 102336
8
neck rehabilitation, Results in Engineering 19 (101306) (2023), https://doi.org/ 
10.1016/j.rineng.2023.101306. 
[12] F. Amin, A. Waris, J. Iqbal, S.O. Gilani, M.Z. Ur Rehman, S. Mushtaq, N.B. Khan, M. 
I. Khan, M. Jameel, N. Tamam, Maximizing stroke recovery with advanced 
technologies: a comprehensive assessment of robot-assisted, EMG-Controlled 
robotics, virtual reality, and mirror therapy interventions, Results in Engineering 
21 (2024) 101725, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rineng.2023.101725. 
[13] M.A. Khan, M. Saibene, R. Das, I. Brunner, S. Puthusserypady, Emergence of 
flexible technology in developing advanced systems for post-stroke rehabilitation: 
a comprehensive review, J. Neural. Eng. 18 (2021). 
[14] K. Shi, A. Song, Y. Li, H. Li, D. Chen, L. Zhu, A cable-driven three-DOF wrist 
rehabilitation exoskeleton with improved performance, Front. Neurorob. 15 
(2021). 
[15] L. Zhang, J. Li, Y. Cui, M. Dong, B. Fang, P. Zhang, Design and performance 
analysis of a parallel wrist rehabilitation robot (PWRR), Robot. Autonom. Syst. 125 
(2020) 103390, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.robot.2019.103390. 
[16] P. Zaixiang, W. Tongyu, Y. Junzhi, L. Shuai, Z. Xiyu, J. Dawei, Design and analysis 
of a flexible, elastic, and rope-driven parallel mechanism for wrist rehabilitation, 
Appl. Bionics Biomech. 2020 (2020), https://doi.org/10.1155/2020/8841400. 
Article ID 8841400, 13 pages. 
[17] M. Eslami, A. Mokhtarian, M. Pirmoradian, et al., Design and fabrication of a 
passive upper limb rehabilitation robot with adjustable automatic balance based on 
variable mass of end-effector, J. Braz. Soc. Mech. Sci. Eng. 42 (2020) 629, https:// 
doi.org/10.1007/s40430-020-02707-6. 
[18] K.X. Khor, P.J.H. Chin, A.R. Hisyam, C.F. Yeong, A.L.T. Narayanan, E.L.M. Su, 
Development of CR2-Haptic: a compact and portable rehabilitation robot for wrist 
and forearm training, in: 2014 IEEE Conference on Biomedical Engineering and 
Sciences(IECBES), 2014, pp. 424–429. 
[19] J. Oblak, I. Cikajlo, Z. Matjaci c, Universal haptic drive: a robot for arm and wrist 
rehabilitation, IEEE Trans. Neural Syst. Rehabil. Eng. 18 (3) (2010) 293–302. 
[20] J. Lee, H. Kim, W. Yang, Development of wrist interface based on fully actuated 
coaxial spherical parallel mechanism for force interaction, Sensors 21 (23) (2021). 
[21] A. Gupta, M.K. O’Malley, V. Patoglu, C. Burgar, Design, control and performance of 
Rice Wrist: a force feedback wrist exoskeleton for rehabilitation and training, Int. J. 
Robot Res. 27 (2) (2008) 233–251. 
[22] S.J. Spencer, J. Klein, K. Minakata, V. Le, J.E. Bobrow, D.J. Reinkensmeyer, A low 
cost parallel robot and trajectory optimization method for wrist and forearm 
rehabilitation using the Wii, in: 2ndIEEE/RAS-EMBS International Conference on 
Biomedical Robotics and Biomechatronics (BioRob 2008), 2008, pp. 869–874. 
[23] J.A. Martinez, P. Ng, S. Lu, M.S. Campagna, O. Celik, Design of Wrist Gimbal: a 
forearm and wrist exoskeleton for stroke rehabilitation, IEEE 13th International 
Conference on Rehabilitation Robotics (ICORR), Seattle, WA, United States, 2013, 
pp. 1-6. 
[24] M. Atlihan, E. Akdogan, M.S. Arslan. Development of a therapeutic exercise robot 
for wrist and forearm rehabilitation, 19th International Conference on Methods 
and Models in Automation and Robotics (MMAR), Miedzyzdroje, Poland, 2014, 
pp. 52–57. 
[25] N. Omarkulov, K. Telegenov, M. Zeinullin, I. Tursynbek, A. Shintemirov, 
Preliminary mechanical design of NU-Wrist: a 3-DOF self-aligning Wrist 
rehabilitation robot, 6th IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Robotics 
and Biomechatronics (BioRob), Singapore, 2016, pp. 962-967. 
[26] L. Luo, L. Peng, Z. Hou, W. Wang, Design and control of a 3-DOF rehabilitation 
robot for forearm and wrist, in: 39th Annual International Conference of the IEEE 
Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society (EMBC), Jeju, South Korea, 2017. 
[27] K.E. Laver, B. Lange, S. George, J.E. Deutsch, G. Saposnik, M. Crotty, Virtual reality 
for stroke rehabilitation, Stroke 49 (4) (2018). 
[28] R. Teasell, N. Bayona, J. Bitensky, An evidence-based review of stroke 
rehabilitation, Topic Stroke Rehab. 10 (1) (2003) 29–58. 
[29] S. Almasi, H. Ahmadi, F. Asadi, L. Shahmoradi, G. Arji, M. Alizadeh, H. Kolivand, 
Kinect-based rehabilitation systems for stroke patients: a scoping review, BioMed 
Res. Int. 4339054 (2022) 1–16. 
[30] M.J. Cano-Ma˜nas, S. Collado-V´azquez, J. Rodríguez Hern´andez, A.J. Mu˜noz 
Villena, R. Cano-de-la-Cuerda, Effects of video-game based therapy on balance, 
postural control, functionality, and quality of life of patients with subacute stroke: 
a randomized controlled trial, J. Healthcare Eng. 5480315 (2020) 1–11. 
[31] F. Corona, et al., Serious games for wrist rehabilitation in juvenile idiopathic 
arthritis, 2018 IEEE Games, Entertainment, Media Conference (GEM), Galway, 
Ireland (2018) 35–42. 
C. Vo Duy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
